doc: Add IPC service documentation (#51443)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: doc/services/ipc/ipc_service/backends/ipc_service_icmsg.rst

.. _ipc_service_backend_icmsg:

ICMsg backend
#############

Inter core messaging backend (ICMsg) was created as a counter proposal to
heavier RPMsg static vrings backend. It offers limitted features, but it small
in size at the same time. It supports minimal functionalities to have the least
possible memory footprint. ICMsg backend is build on top of :ref:`spsc_pbuf`.

ICMsg backend supports registration of single endpoint on single instance. If
application requires more than one communication channel, multiple instances
must be defined. On each instance dedicated endpoint must be created.

Bonding
*******

When the endpoint is registered, a magic number is written to the shared memory
and a signal is sent to other domain/CPU. After that attempt to read the magic
number from the other side of the communication is done. If the magic number is
already there it means that the other communication side has already registered
endpoint on its side and bound callback is called. If there is no magic number
yet, the endpoint waits to receive signal from the other domain/CPU to read the

> magic number.

Reviewer: This is a suggestions, but honestly it is still a bit unclear how there can not be a scenario where the magic number is in the shared memory and the endpoint is yet to be registered.

> When the endpoint is registered, a magic number is written to the shared memory
> and a signal is sent to other domain/CPU. After that attempt to read the magic
> number from the other side of the communication is done. If the magic number is
> already there it means that the other communication side has already registered
> endpoint on its side and bound callback is called. If there is no magic number
> yet, the endpoint waits to receive signal from the other domain/CPU to read the
> magic number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the endpoint is registered, the following happens on each one
of the domains (or CPUs) connected through the IPC instance:

1. The domain (or CPU) writes a magic number to its ``TX-region`` of the shared memory.
#. It then sends a signal to the other domain or CPU.
#. The receiving domain or CPU attempts to read the magic number from its ``RX-region``
   (where ``TX-region`` for an endpoint is ``RX-region`` for the other communication
   side, and viceversa).

If the magic number is found in the ``RX-region`` of the shared memory for a specific
domain or CPU, it means that the other communication side has already registered the
endpoint on its side, and the first endpoint calls a bound callback. If there is no
magic number yet, the endpoint waits to receive the signal from the other domain or
CPU to read the magic number.
```

@emob-nordic Please check this interpretation

Author: @FrancescoSer i made some changes in this part of the documentation. Please have a look. Hopefully it is clearer now.

Because ICMsg backend performs first read regardless of the signaling mechanism
it is required from the user that shared memory areas are cleared with zeroes
before any side of the communication uses it.

Configuration
*************

> Backend configuration is done via DT. This ensures the memory region is unique
> and not ovrlapping. The user must take care of picking the correct area and
> reserve it for IPC service with ICMsg backend. An example configuration is
> shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration of the backend is done via devicetree. This ensures that the memory region is unique
and not overlapping other regions. The user must pick the correct area and
reserve it for the IPC service with the ICMsg backend. See the following configuration example: 
```

.. code-block:: devicetree

   reserved-memory {
      tx: memory@20070000 {
         reg = <0x20070000 0x0800>;
      };

      rx: memory@20078000 {
         reg = <0x20078000 0x0800>;
      };
   };

      ipc {
         ipc0: ipc0 {
            compatible = "zephyr,ipc-icmsg";
            tx-region = <&tx>;
            rx-region = <&rx>;
            mboxes = <&mbox 0>, <&mbox 1>;
            mbox-names = "tx", "rx";
            status = "okay";
         };
      };
   };

> Similar configuration must be provided for the other side of the communication
> (domain/CPU) but the MBOX channels (TX and RX) are swapped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A similar configuration must also be provided for the other side of the communication
(domain or CPU) but the MBOX channels (TX and RX) must be swapped.
```

.. _ipc_service_backend_icmsg:

ICMsg backend
#############

> The inter core messaging backend (ICMsg) was created as an alternative to the
> heavier RPMsg static vrings backend. It offers a minimal feature set in a small

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The inter core messaging backend (ICMsg) is a lighter alternative to the
heavier RPMsg static vrings backend. It offers a minimal feature set in a small
```

memory footprint. The ICMsg backend is build on top of :ref:`spsc_pbuf`.

The ICMsg backend uses shared memory and MBOX devices for exchanging data.

> Shared memory is used to store the data, MBOX devices are used to signal
> the data has been written.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shared memory is used to store the data, MBOX devices are used to signal
that the data has been written.
```

The backend supports the registration of a single endpoint on a single
instance. If the application requires more than one communication channel, you
must define multiple instances, each having its own dedicated endpoint.

Configuration
*************

> The configuration of the backend is done via devicetree. You must ensure that
> the memory regions used for data exchange are unique (not overlapping any
> other region) and accessible by both domains (or CPUs). You must define two
> areas (``tx-region`` and ``rx-region``) for each instance. See the following
> configuration example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The backend is configured via devicetree. When configuring the backend, do the following:

* Define two memory regions to assign to the two MBOX channels (``tx-region`` and
   ``rx-region``) needed for each instance.
  Each region will be both the MBOX ``tx-region`` for one of the endpoints and the
  MBOX ``rx-region`` for the other.
* Ensure that the memory regions used for data exchange are unique (not overlapping any
other region) and accessible by both domains (or CPUs). 

See the following configuration example for one of the endpoints:
```

.. code-block:: devicetree

   reserved-memory {
      tx: memory@20070000 {
         reg = <0x20070000 0x0800>;
      };

      rx: memory@20078000 {
         reg = <0x20078000 0x0800>;
      };
   };

      ipc {
         ipc0: ipc0 {
            compatible = "zephyr,ipc-icmsg";
            tx-region = <&tx>;
            rx-region = <&rx>;
            mboxes = <&mbox 0>, <&mbox 1>;
            mbox-names = "tx", "rx";
            status = "okay";
         };
      };
   };

> A similar configuration must also be provided for the other side of the
> communication (domain/CPU) but the MBOX channels (``tx-region`` and
> ``rx-region``) must be swapped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must provide a similar configuration for the other side of the
communication (the other endpoint, either a domain or CPU) but you
must swap the MBOX channels (``tx-region`` and ``rx-region``).
```

Bonding
*******

When the endpoint is registered, the following happens on each domain (or CPU)
connected through the IPC instance:

1. The domain (or CPU) writes a magic number to its ``tx-region`` of the shared
memory.

> #. It then sends a signal to the other domain or CPU, informing the data, has

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. It then sends a signal to the other domain or CPU, informing that the data has
```

been written.

> #. It then checks, regardless of signal from the other side being received or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. It then checks, regardless of the signal from the other side being received or
```

> not, if the magic number is already in its ``rx-tegion``. If it is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
not, if the magic number is already in its ``rx-tegion``. If it is,
```

:c:member:`ipc_service_cb.bound` is called.

> #. If the magic number is not yet in ``rx-region`` the domain (or CPU) is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. If the magic number is not yet in the ``rx-region``, the domain (or CPU)
```

> waiting to receive signal from the other side of the communication to finish
> bonding and inform the application by calling :c:member:`ipc_service_cb.bound`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
waits to receive the signal from the other side of the communication to finish
the bonding process, and informs the application by calling :c:member:`ipc_service_cb.bound`.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.. _ipc_service_backend_icmsg:

ICMsg backend
#############

The inter core messaging backend (ICMsg) is a lighter alternative to the
heavier RPMsg static vrings backend. It offers a minimal feature set in a small
memory footprint. The ICMsg backend is build on top of :ref:`spsc_pbuf`.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Overview
========

```

The ICMsg backend uses shared memory and MBOX devices for exchanging data.
Shared memory is used to store the data, MBOX devices are used to signal that
the data has been written.

The backend supports the registration of a single endpoint on a single
instance. If the application requires more than one communication channel, you
must define multiple instances, each having its own dedicated endpoint.

Configuration

> *************

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=============
```

The  backend is configured via devicetree. When configuring the backend, do the
following:

* Define two memory regions and assign them to ``tx-region`` and ``rx-region``
  of an instance. Ensure that the memory regions used for data exchange are
  unique (not overlapping any other region) and accessible by both domains
  (or CPUs).

> * Define MBOX devices which are used to send signal that informs the other

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Define MBOX devices which are used to send the signal that informs the other
```

  domain (or CPU) that data has been written. Ensure that the other domain
  (or CPU) is able to receive the signal.

See the following configuration example for one of the instances:

.. code-block:: devicetree

   reserved-memory {
      tx: memory@20070000 {
         reg = <0x20070000 0x0800>;
      };

      rx: memory@20078000 {
         reg = <0x20078000 0x0800>;
      };
   };

      ipc {
         ipc0: ipc0 {
            compatible = "zephyr,ipc-icmsg";
            tx-region = <&tx>;
            rx-region = <&rx>;
            mboxes = <&mbox 0>, <&mbox 1>;
            mbox-names = "tx", "rx";
            status = "okay";
         };
      };
   };

You must provide a similar configuration for the other side of the

> communication (domain/CPU) but you must swap the MBOX channels and  memory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
communication (domain or CPU) but you must swap the MBOX channels and memory
```

regions (``tx-region`` and ``rx-region``).

Bonding

> *******

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=======
```

When the endpoint is registered, the following happens on each domain (or CPU)
connected through the IPC instance:

1. The domain (or CPU) writes a magic number to its ``tx-region`` of the shared
memory.
#. It then sends a signal to the other domain or CPU, informing that the data
has been written.
#. It then checks, regardless of the signal from the other side being received
or not, if the magic number is already in its ``rx-tegion``. If it is,
:c:member:`ipc_service_cb.bound` is called.

> #. If the magic number is not yet in the ``rx-region`` the domain (or CPU)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. If the magic number is not yet in the ``rx-region``, the domain (or CPU)
```

waits to receive the signal from the other side of the communication to finish
the bonding process, and informs the application by calling
:c:member:`ipc_service_cb.bound`.

Since the ICMsg backend performs the first read from ``rx-region``, regardless
of the signaling mechanism, the shared memory areas must be cleared with zeroes
before any side of the communication uses them.

Samples

> *******

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=======
```
